[WIP] Design doc for CRD Validation in OCS Operator Project (#390)
openshift/ocs-operator: docs/design/crd-validation/README.md

## Background

> This proposal is to provide CRD level validation for OCS Operator project. Currently, when the user (manually) changes CRD yaml file, the cluster will fail at the creation time if there is an error in the user input. It would have been nice to have a layer of validation when user submit the changes.

Reviewer: Validation is always good, but what sorts of validations do you think we could reasonably provide here? If the user changes a CRD, they're already clearly doing something we don't anticipate. Assuming that the semantics of a change they make is incorrect seems difficult, especially before we receive their actual CR (which is your intention if I read this doc correctly).

I definitely see that modifying CRDs is error-prone and that's unfortunate. Still, this document spends a lot of time on the "I want" clause of the "As a... I want... so that" user story. Who wants this feature? What concrete benefit (with examples) can we give them?

Author: @egafford , 
Many of the initial bugs, according to which we started the validation project, has become invalid... One such use case we see is depicted in the following bug, can you please take a look,

[bug#1777073](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1777073)

Reviewer: All right; I see the case and I appreciate the added detail on the benefit. It seems as though there is ongoing discussion / disagreement about why this feature is needed, but you've addressed the request for changes.

> This proposal is to provide CRD level validation for OCS Operator project. Currently, when the user (manually) changes CRD yaml file, the cluster will fail at the creation time if there is an error in the user input. It would have been nice to have a layer of validation when user submit the changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This proposal is to provide validation for OCS Operator CRs. Currently, when the user Creates/Updates the CR, the reconciliation might fail if there is an error in the user input. It will be a better user experience if we validate the request right when user submits the changes and before the CR gets written into etcd.
```

> This proposal is to provide CRD level validation for OCS Operator project. Currently, when the user (manually) changes CRD yaml file, the cluster will fail at the creation time if there is an error in the user input. It would have been nice to have a layer of validation when user submit the changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This proposal is to provide validation for OCS Operator CRs. Currently, when the user Creates/Updates the CR, the reconciliation might fail if there is an error in the user input. It will be a better user experience if we validate the request right when user submits the changes and before the CR gets written into etcd.
```

## Proposal

We would like to introduce **Admission Controllers** to the OCS Project. An **Admission Controller** is a piece of code that intercepts requests to the Kubernetes API server, prior to persistence of the object, but after the request is authenticated and authorized.

## Admission Controllers

### General Overview

![AC Image](./design-pic.png)

Some more details can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/03/21/a-guide-to-kubernetes-admission-controllers/).

### In OCS Operator Project

#### Goals

Our main goals are,

- Minimal changes to the existing OCS Operator project
    - there should not be any (no or very minimal) change to the existing code
- Easy to add / remove / modify validations
    - other developers should be able to modify validations

> 

Reviewer: Some examples here of validations we think might help the user would be great.

  kind: ValidatingWebhookConfiguration  ----> 1
  metadata:
    name: <controller_name> ----> 2
  webhooks:
  - name: <webhook_name> ----> 3
    clientConfig: ----> 4
      service:
        namespace: default  ----> 5
        name: kubernetes ----> 6
       path: <webhook_url> ----> 7
      caBundle: <cert> ----> 8
    rules: ----> 9
    - operations: ----> 10
      - <operation>
      apiGroups:
      - ""
      apiVersions:
      - "*"
      resources:
      - <resource>
    failurePolicy: <policy> ----> 11
```

1. Specifies a validating admission webhook configuration.
2. The name for the webhook admission object.
3. The name of the webhook to call.
4. Information about how to connect to, trust, and send data to the webhook server.
5. The project where the front-end service is created.
6. The name of the front-end service.
7. The webhook URL used for admission requests.
8. A PEM-encoded CA certificate that signs the server certificate used by the webhook server.
9. Rules that define when the API server should use this controller.
10. The operation that triggers the API server to call this controller are,

    - create
    - update
    - delete

>     - connect

Reviewer: This is a moderate amount of complexity. Why do we think creating this feature with this mechanism will be less error-prone than allowing the user to make their own changes?

## Background

This proposal is to provide validation for OCS Operator CRs. Currently, the user Creates/Updates the CR, the reconciliation might fail when there is an error in the user input. It will be a better user experience if we validate the request right after user submits the changes and before the CR gets written into etcd.

## User Senarios

Listing out some user cases, where validators will be helpful,

a. **Expanding the cluster / Adding more capacity**

> From backend, validator could check the existing resources and accordingly validate the request. In future, it could check for different storage platforms (like AWS, Azure, VMWares', BareMetal etc) and further advance the validation checks.

Reviewer 3: If I'm understanding this correctly, this doesn't sound like a valid thing to validate, and would be almost impossible to guarantee across multiple platforms. The Kubernetes model of eventually consistency would be to let the request for additional devices go through and retry until it succeeds.
